[Music]
the business model canvas is a great
visual tool for defining describing or
developing the business model of your
organization
originally developed by alexander
osterwalder the concept of the business
model canvas is invaluable as an aid to
communicating how the business operates
by clearly identifying the nine
basic building blocks of the business
and how they're interrelated
the first building block is customer
segments the key client groups that the
organization serves each group should
have distinct needs that require
different channels and relationships to
generate value
ask who your ideal or most important
customers are
who are you creating value for what type
of relationship does each segment want
this may mean that you need to decide
not to serve certain groups of customers
so that you are using your resources
efficiently the way in which you create
value for your customers is described as
the value proposition
that aspect of your product or service
that distinguishes you from the
competition
how do you create value for your
customers this can include the way in
which you design your offering or create
a premium brand
it could be that you offer a unique
experience or that you provide something
at a significantly lower price point
than your competition
value can also be created not by price
but by speed of delivery
or an enhanced service ask yourself
how you create value for your customers
are you removing a pain
or providing something that people want
the third basic building block describes
how the value proposition is
communicated and delivered to your
customers
how do you raise awareness of your brand
and your offerings
how do you help your customers to
evaluate the value that you bring
what routes can your customers use to
buy the products and services that you
provide
how do you deliver your value
proposition and what support do you
offer
once a sale has been made each customer
segment will expect a different type of
experience when they engage with your
business
and this is explored in the next
building block customer relationships
how does your organization interact with
each of your customer segments
this can range from a personal
interaction to
self-service or automated experiences or
it could include a more collaborative
relationship
through a sense of shared communal
experience or even working with
customers to jointly create offerings
these first four building blocks are
essentially concerned with the customer
who we serve and how we do it the key
activities block then describes those
things that you need to
do to be successful in delivering your
value proposition
this could be producing a product that
meets certain standards or quality
or in providing a service that removes a
pain or problem on behalf of your
customer
the third type of activity is in
providing a space where other vendors
and customers can exchange products or
services
such as an online marketplace once we
know what value we create for our
customers
we can understand what our customers are
willing to pay how they pay
and how they would like to pay the
revenue streams block
explores the mechanisms used to derive
fees from each of the customer segments
these can include transactional sales
for physical assets or the usage of a
service
fees paid to make use of a service or
product temporarily
such as a subscription of a streaming
service or the higher of construction
tools
or even license fees paid for the use of
a brand
revenues can also be based on
commissions or brokerage fees and for
providing promotional access to an
audience
now that we understand our customers and
how we exchange value for revenues
we can consider the internal building
blocks these include the key resources
that are needed to deliver the value
proposition
and to create revenues these assets can
include the physical facilities
equipment or vehicles you may have
intellectual assets such as
patents copyrighted material or know-how
resources can also include your people
and your financial position
some resources that are needed for the
business model to work
are not available to you from within
your business
these are obtained through partnering
with other organizations and providers
key partnerships defines who it is that
we need to work with to deliver the
business model
who are your key suppliers are there key
activities that are provided by someone
else
there are four types of partnership
strategic alliances with non-competitors
cooperating with traditional competitors
working jointly with a third party to
create a new business venture
or transactional relationships that
assure a reliable source of supply
the final building block considers the
costs associated with each of the other
eight elements of the business model
consider what resources cost the most
which activities are most expensive
what is the cost structure and how a
charge is incurred in operating your
business model
these could be fixed costs that do not
change as your levels of business
fluctuate
or they could vary in proportion to the
volume of business that you are doing
you should also consider how costs can
be apportioned over a range of
activities as the scale of your business
increases
for example unit prices may be reduced
as you buy higher volumes
and similarly economies of scope may be
enjoyed as you expand operations
so that key activities support multiple
channels
together the nine basic building blocks
provide you with an overview of how your
business creates and delivers value
how the various elements interrelate
what they cost to deliver
and how much revenue they generate it's
also a great way to articulate your
business model to others
however the business model canvas is
perhaps most useful
when it's used to challenge each element
of the existing business model
to generate new ideas and concepts it
comes to life when you systematically
ask
what if for each of the elements for
example
what if we didn't need to be in the room
when delivering training
could be the spark that leads to the
development of a new
online learning business model this is
particularly relevant when a business is
forced to re-examine
its business model in response to macro
environmental conditions removing one or
more of the basic building blocks
for example when the social distancing
measures undertaken to combat kovid 19
result in your main channels to your
customer being closed
by using the business model canvas to
understand your traditional model
you will be able to explore new models
that deliver sustainable strategic
alternatives
to learn more about the business model
canvas we recommend that you read
business model generation
by alexander osterwalder and ease paneur
or visit the strategizer website we
should point out that optima training
is in no way affiliated with strategizer
we just admire the work
that they do